We've cleared plastic!
We've cleared wire!
We've cleared vacuum tubes!
We've cleared microphones!
We've finally completed our
extra huge science project!
Copper
Coal
Charcoal
Beehive
Sulfuric
Acid
Lead
Tin
Solder
Gold
Wire
Coil
Mercury
Vacuum
Pump
Phosphorus
Rochelle
Salt
Beehive
Battery
Circuit Board
Vacuum Tube
Light Bulb
Wine
Microphone
Headphones
Cell Phone
Voices Over Infinite Distance
We've come so far, building a
scientific civilization from scratch
Ramen
in this stone-riddled world.
The strongest weapon in modern warfare,
delivering voices over infinite distances...
The cell phone is born!
Yeah!
Our voices are going to travel across
the skies and far into the distance.
It's so strange.
Yeah.
So it's great that we're sending
our voices over long distances...
But how are we going to hear them?
Whoops! We're going to need another one.
You kept quiet about that
on purpose, didn't you?
Because people might give up if
you told them we need to make two.
We needed
more than one
cell phone!!
Tee-hee.
We do need another one to
make it work as a cell phone.
But if we run a long cable,
it should work as a phone.
Ruri can hear me if I
talk through here, right?
Ahem.
Chrome, have you chosen your
historic first words for the phones
we've finally built?
Ruri-chan's listening on the other end.
Come on, it's your chance to
tell her how you really feel.
This is your moment.
My true feelings...
Hit the switch!
It's on!
Ruri...
Did you see that, Ruri?
Pretty awesome, right?!
Science is insane!
What's up with you all, anyway?
I heard them!
It worked!
How does this thing work?
I'm shocked.
That was definitely Chrome's voice.
I don't get it.
How can something so tiny speak?
It's almost like a speaker.
"Almost like"? It's literally a speaker.
Microphones and speakers just convert
between sound and electricity.
They're the same...
Ruri.
What did you just say?
"It's almost like a speaker"?
Huh, a speaker?
So is this a bee?
It's a bee! A bee!
Huh? Speakers are bees?
Um, I mean... aren't speakers a kind of bee?
How did that happen?
It was in the Hundred Tales.
That's how it was passed down?
Yes.
In tale 14 of the Hundred Tales...
There's a talkative bee named Speaker.
When it poked gravestones with its needle,
it could speak in the voices of the dead.
Speaker...
Needles on gravestones...
Voices of the dead...
That story isn't transferring
any kind of knowledge.
I don't get what it's for.
That's super suspicious.
It's using the word "speaker" to try to
communicate something
only to modern humans.
And it's tale number 14.
One and four, or "i" and "shi,"
as in "ishi (stone)."
It's your birthday.
It's said that these are the graves of
Byakuya-sama and the other founders.
My old man's gravestone...
The cemetery!
What do you think you're doing,
Senku? That's sacrilege!
What? Is there something
about that gravestone?
I should have noticed a lot sooner.
That man is such a pain in the ass.
Just the gravestones of the founders?
Now that I think about it,
that's ten billion percent bull.
This isn't a gravestone.
It's a time capsule that's
been kept solid in concrete.
A time capsule?
Is there something inside it?
Yeah, we need to break it to get inside.
We're breaking it, then?!
Hold it, meat head!
If I'm right, there's glass in this.
We're going to need someone with both
power and speed to crack it swiftly.
So fast!
There's something inside!
It's some kind of silver chunk.
It's silver because it's
wrapped in aluminum foil.
If we wash it with hydrochloric acid...
It's actually glass!
A saucer?
It looks like they cut out the
bottom of a bottle or something.
A saucer.
Speaker.
Speaking with needles.
Does that remind you of anything?
It's a record!
My dad and the crew's voices are on there.
They bothered to leave us a voice recording.
Let's hear what they had to say.
I'll kill you if it isn't something exhilarating,
you deadbeat dad.
Chrome was right.
Science truly is beautiful.
It lets Senku-san's father
speak to him from heaven.
Now, thousands of years later,
traveling through time with science.
Hey, Senku...
Does that mean that "record"
thing can trap sound?
B-B-But you can't even catch sound.
I'm so confused.
How?
The way a record works
is ridiculously simple.
Hella lit!
You make a needle vibrate with sound,
which digs grooves into the record.
And then, if you run a needle
over the grooves to vibrate it,
it'll make the same sounds that dug them.
Hella lit!
Digging grooves in glass
makes it store sound?
That's a surprise.
Senku's dad is awesome!
Nah, that's not true.
Byakuya couldn't have done it.
It must have been the people
with him that made it.
Astronauts are all science elites.
All of them except Byakuya,
who got in by luck.
Although he might have been the
one who came up with the idea.
He's the only one who'd
think of something so lame.
I bet we could make a record if
we used the bottom of a bottle.
Th-That sounds like a good idea.
Glass is a lot more durable than plastic.
Preserved correctly, it could
last tens of thousands of years.
Huh...
Did you know that?
Not at all.
I just thought it could work because it's round.
You could have just said "yes," pops.
Well, anyway, that's that.
So give me a hand, guys.
Hey, they left.
Come on! Be nicer to the old man!
Shamil!
We don't have enough parts, old man.
There might be something
we can use on the Soyuz.
Hey!
I found something!
My buddy, the electric shaver!
Sorry, mister shaver.
Your motor won't go to waste.
We can make a record player pretty
easily using the things we've made so far.
We'll use the gear from
the cotton candy machine.
I went and got it.
Destroying Father's shield was well worth it.
It's doing so much good.
Your father's happy as long
as it's useful to you.
This is how people become cogs
in society as they get older.
Literally.
No one asked for your words of wisdom.
I'm back.
I use this when I'm knitting.
This is perfect.
A bone needle.
The playback side of making
a record is dead easy.
Recording is another matter.
You're cutting glass,
so you need a hard rock.
Like corundum or diamond, right?
Please, use this.
I don't know...
It's diamond.
Isn't that your wedding ring?
You can't. That's too important.
I don't wear it all the time, anyway.
It gets in the way.
I'm sure the diamond will be happier
serving as a record needle.
But in exchange,
you have to let us in on building
the recorder and making recordings.
Thanks, guys.
Yeah!
That took no time at all!
Record player
acquired!!
What's going on?
Apparently, we're going to hear
the voices of the founders.
The founders?
The voices of people from
thousands of years ago?
All right.
Let's spin it, Ginro.
Okay.
I've gotten good at spinning this,
from the cotton candy machine.
I don't know who's listening to this,
hundreds, maybe thousands
of years from now...
But I'm the astronaut Ishigami Byakuya.
Shut up. I can't hear.
This is the voice of the
founder of Ishigami Village...
Senku's father's actual voice!
Just kidding!
That's it for the stuffy formalities.
You revived from the petrification, and
now you're listening to this recording.
Senku, it's you, isn't it?
I can tell.
Hundreds, thousands, maybe an
unthinkable number of years later,
I'm making my final call to you.
Not that I can hear you...
Senku, don't forget.
I've always, always...
Nah, you don't need that dramatic
father-and-son crap, do you?
Let's get right to business.
You really do get it.
He's so cold to his father.
You're really not any better, Kohaku.
Senku, if you're still having a hard time
winning over the hearts of the villagers,
let them hear this.
To those for whom the
light of music has dimmed!
Why a record, all of a sudden?
I've been thinking the whole time...
How do we keep all the
knowledge and fun stuff that
humanity's come up with
from disappearing?
Besides...
I wanted to leave something that would
be exhilarating for Senku to hear.
Song...
But it's too pretty.
It's the voice of an angel.
It's so amazing!
The song is so...
It's amazing!
Your vocabulary...
Lilian-chan was one of the
top singers of our age.
Imagine that being the first song you hear.
Oh, man.
Two million years of humanity...
Oh, man!
Senku, was there all kinds of awesome
music like this in the past?
Yeah.
And not just music.
Games, TV, comics, movies...
All entertainment that science made possible.
There was a ton of incredibly
fun stuff all over the world.
The real thing's gone now, but it's all there...
in people's hearts.
I'm going to let all of you see it,
once we take down the Tsukasa Empire
and revive all the world's statues.
I really want to see everything!
This is so damn exciting!
All the world's statues!
Let's revive them all!
So our first step is to take down the
so-called Tsukasa Empire, is that right?
This is awesome.
Everyone's totally pumped!
Your dad's got skill.
He's motivated the entire village
We must defeat the enemy quickly
and revive all those statues.
to revive all the people
who've been petrified.
Yes.
All with just Lilian-chan's singing.
Doesn't this also wash away
your guilt for having dragged
the villagers into a war?
I've never had that kind of guilt.
Senku.
You actually made what you
said that day come true.
Just like you said on
the day we first met...
This whole village has
become a nation of science.
So it's finally beginning.
The battle between the kingdom of
science and the Tsukasa Empire.
Yeah!
We better get that second cell
phone built and bring it over.
Which means, Senku-chan,
those two are finally up to bat.
Yeah.
We're finally connecting.
The entire kingdom of science,
the whole of its might.
It's almost been a year now, huh?
Yeah.
We're waiting for you, Sen—
Don't raise your voice, Taiju-kun!
Shoot! That's right!
Senku...
Spring is not far off.
Yeah.
The final battle with Senku is near.
Now...
Let's snuff the flame of science forever
and build a new, untarnished world.
The final battle against the
Tsukasa Empire, on our home turf...
It's the beginning of the Stone Wars.
This is exhilarating.
Season 2 Confirmed
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.